---
title: Neural Style Transfer & Matting
author: Mohamed Debbagh
layout: post
icon: fa-solid fa-eye
---
**Topic:** Stylistic Music Video Through Neural Matting and Style Transfer

**Abstract** — Video styling and special effects are important components
to developing a popular music video. Music artists often
accompany their songs with visuals to showcase their own
styles outside the auditory experience. Similar to taste
and smell, audio and visual stimuli are often linked together
and tend to enhance general feelings conveyed by the music,
and vice-versa. While the story-line of a music video is not
as significant to the experience, the visual effects will often
make or break a song. Songs with music videos tend to
exponentially increase an artist’s visibility within the industry.
While established artists spend millions of dollars on sets and
special effects, smaller underground artists rely on abstract
and innovative software visualization techniques to enhance
their music videos and stand out from the crowd. With
significant advances in deep learning, many of these effects
can be achieved through computational photography and video
processing techniques. This paper explores two techniques that
can enhance a music video, these include re-styling of the
video using abstract visual style transfer and video matting to
achieve a separation of foreground and background similar to
a green screen. Applying these visual techniques on videos are
often more complicated than standard single image processing
since they need to maintain temporal coherence between
frames and must be considered throughout. To showcase these
effects, these techniques are applied to a generic rap music
video. Both techniques applied in this paper utilize neural
network models, and thus we consider them neural methods.

**_Index Terms_**—style transfer, video matting, video processing, deep learning

### Presentation and Video:

*Video is on the last slide (slide 13)*
<style>.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }</style><div class='embed-container'><iframe src='https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vTz6Kjh5SH6OD0m1CjkkL43sEEUkX8pp9SK95rksOYOxa2Btmq5yp83PTbxGAyq402_AG8jmNalwn40/embed?start=true&loop=false&delayms=5000' frameborder='0' width='1440' height='839' allowfullscreen='true' mozallowfullscreen='true' webkitallowfullscreen='true'></iframe></div>
<br/>

### Paper:

<style>.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }</style><div class='embed-container'><object data='/assets/papers/2023-04-13-NST.pdf' type='application/pdf'>     <embed src='/assets/papers/2023-04-13-NST.pdf'>         <p>This browser does not support PDFs. Please download the PDF to view it: <a href='/assets/papers/2023-04-13-NST.pdf'>Download PDF</a>.</p>     </embed> </object></div>